CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to F-Droid

For information about all aspects of F-Droid, check out the
[docs](https://f-droid.org/docs)


## Issue Tracker

You may use the
[issue tracker](https://gitlab.com/fdroid/fdroiddata/issues) to report
issues on app metadata and issues with the packages distributed
through our repository.

Before opening an issue about an outdated app, have a look at its metadata
file and make sure that updating the app is actually possible.


## Merge Requests

### Setting up fdroiddata for merge requests

* [Register on GitLab](http://gitlab.com)

* Visit and fork the [fdroiddata repository](https://gitlab.com/fdroid/fdroiddata)

* Clone your fork

* Follow the [Quickstart](README.md#quickstart)

Note that to use the master branch of fdroiddata you will need the
master branch of fdroidserver. Using the latest stable release of
fdroidserver would probably work, but it is not guaranteed.

### Adding a new app

If you want to add a new app you will have to add a new metadata file to the
repository, like `metadata/app.id.txt`. Here is how to write that file.

If the app is on GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket, use `fdroid import`:

	fdroid import --url https://github.com/foo/bar --subdir app

Alternatively, start the metadata file from scratch:

	cp templates/app-minimal metadata/app.id.txt

Now that the file is created, you need to fill up all the app information and
add a working build recipe.

You can use the [metadata section](https://f-droid.org/manual/html_node/Metadata.html)
in the manual for reference, or the full template at `templates/app-full` for
some suggestions.

Once you're done, see if `fdroid readmeta` runs without any errors. If it
doesn't, there are syntax errors in your metadata file.

### Building it

We build apps from source, so a new app must have at least one working build.

You can have a look at the build templates at `templates/build-*` for some
quick suggestions. You may also follow the manual or look at how other apps
are built for working examples.

* Run `fdroid readmeta` again to make sure there still aren't any syntax
  errors

* Run `fdroid rewritemeta app.id` to clean up your file

* Run `fdroid checkupdates app.id` to fill automated fields like `Auto Name`
  and `Current Version`

* Make sure that `fdroid lint app.id` doesn't report any warnings. If it does,
  fix them.

* Test your build recipe with `fdroid build -v -l app.id`

Congratulations! You can now open a merge request to add your app.

Our buildserver runs builds once a day, so it may take up to 24h for your app
to appear in our repository.

### General recommendations

* [Squash](http://gitready.com/advanced/2009/02/10/squashing-commits-with-rebase.html) your commits

* Make sure you've ran `fdroid lint` and `fdroid rewritemeta` before opening a
  merge request

* If you haven't tested your build, say so in the merge request.

* Check for CI errors once you have opened your Merge Request

Commit message:

faster access to meta data templates
- wget command
- link to templates

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to F-Droid

For information about all aspects of F-Droid, check out the
[docs](https://f-droid.org/docs)


## Issue Tracker

You may use the
[issue tracker](https://gitlab.com/fdroid/fdroiddata/issues) to report
issues on app metadata and issues with the packages distributed
through our repository.

Before opening an issue about an outdated app, have a look at its metadata
file and make sure that updating the app is actually possible.


## Merge Requests

### Setting up fdroiddata for merge requests

* [Register on GitLab](http://gitlab.com)

* Visit and fork the [fdroiddata repository](https://gitlab.com/fdroid/fdroiddata)

* Clone your fork

* Follow the [Quickstart](README.md#quickstart)

Note that to use the master branch of fdroiddata you will need the
master branch of fdroidserver. Using the latest stable release of
fdroidserver would probably work, but it is not guaranteed.

### Adding a new app

If you want to add a new app you will have to add a new metadata file to the
repository, like `metadata/app.id.txt`. Here is how to write that file.

If the app is on GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket, use `fdroid import`:

	fdroid import --url https://github.com/foo/bar --subdir app

Alternatively, start the metadata file from scratch, see [the templates](https://gitlab.com/fdroid/fdroiddata/tree/master/templates):

	cp templates/app-minimal metadata/app.id.txt

Or by download:

    wget -O metadata/app.id.txt https://gitlab.com/fdroid/fdroiddata/raw/master/templates/app-minimal

Now that the file is created, you need to fill up all the app information and
add a working build recipe.

You can use the [metadata section](https://f-droid.org/manual/html_node/Metadata.html)
in the manual for reference, or the full template at `templates/app-full` for
some suggestions.

Once you're done, see if `fdroid readmeta` runs without any errors. If it
doesn't, there are syntax errors in your metadata file.

### Building it

We build apps from source, so a new app must have at least one working build.

You can have a look at the build templates at `templates/build-*` for some
quick suggestions. You may also follow the manual or look at how other apps
are built for working examples.

* Run `fdroid readmeta` again to make sure there still aren't any syntax
  errors

* Run `fdroid rewritemeta app.id` to clean up your file

* Run `fdroid checkupdates app.id` to fill automated fields like `Auto Name`
  and `Current Version`

* Make sure that `fdroid lint app.id` doesn't report any warnings. If it does,
  fix them.

* Test your build recipe with `fdroid build -v -l app.id`

Congratulations! You can now open a merge request to add your app.

Our buildserver runs builds once a day, so it may take up to 24h for your app
to appear in our repository.

### General recommendations

* [Squash](http://gitready.com/advanced/2009/02/10/squashing-commits-with-rebase.html) your commits

* Make sure you've ran `fdroid lint` and `fdroid rewritemeta` before opening a
  merge request

* If you haven't tested your build, say so in the merge request.

* Check for CI errors once you have opened your Merge Request
